we spend more than five thousand dollars
annually on impulse buying
but we're not the only ones to blame
manufacturers and sellers study us
carefully
to trigger our desire to buy but here's
the good news
there are very effective ways to
withstand any temptations
and keep growing your savings keep new
bills
in your wallet one study found that the
physical appearance of money
influences our spending people are more
likely to give away those bills that
look
old dirty and worn out try to keep
new bills in your wallet and deposit the
rest into your bank account
[Music]
procrastinating can be good
before clicking the complete order
button while shopping online
you can try to close the website and
leave it for a few hours
or overnight you might even forget about
the items you chose
which means you didn't really need them
in the first place
you can do exactly the same thing in the
physical store
by putting the item back and taking a
short walk away from that store
avoid long interactions with sales staff
positive interactions with customers are
carefully followed by many retailers
the more sales associates interact with
their customers
the longer they make them stay in their
store and the more likely
those customers will buy more than they
intended
knowing this you can now try to reduce
these interactions
to be as short as possible or just don't
interact at all
try to leave your bank card at home
one more study reveals that consumers
are more likely to spend more money
if they pay with their debit cards than
if they pay with cash
when we pay with cash we see the amount
of money we spend
and hand over to the cashier makes it a
lot more painful
you don't get that effect when paying
with a plastic card
check out as a guest when shopping
online
avoid registering a new account and
having them save your bank account data
saved information means that buying can
be done in just a few clicks
that convenience can trigger an impulse
purchase
if you proceed with your purchase as a
guest you will need to enter your card
number and other information
which means there's a chance you might
get lazy
not want to go look for your card and
eventually
avoid ordering check the reviews on
expensive items
buying expensive things on impulse and
then regretting it
might be very painful to prevent this
you can try to check online and see what
others are saying
about the pricey thing you intend to buy
sometimes you might find out that
most of the other customers ended up
being unhappy about it
so you probably shouldn't spend your
money on it either
keep a mint in your mouth when entering
a store
retailers use a special strategy called
scent marketing to make the shopping
experience more pleasant for their
customers
they use scents like bergamot vanilla
white tea
or bamboo to trigger guests to spend
more money
mint flavored candy or chewing gum can
overpower the aromas around you
and help you not spend more than you
intended
put on your high heels according to a
small study
having to be focused on keeping your
balance while wearing high heels
might have an impact on the money you
spend this way
consumers will be able to evaluate their
options more carefully
and choose products with mid-range
prices instead of those that are very
expensive
interestingly going shopping after yoga
or after riding on an escalator
can have the same effect turn on your
own music
another trick to make us spend more is
to use pleasant
sounds and songs in stores this topic
has been studied for a very long time
and it has been proven that the music's
tempo and
genre influence the way that we make
purchase decisions to not be tricked
you can put on earplugs while shopping
or listen to music that you know
won't influence your mood too much
avoid touching the products too much
researchers found that if customers are
allowed to see
and touch different merchandise in the
store they are more likely
to pay more it turns out that touch
really influences our purchase decisions
and that sellers use this to their
advantage when shopping
try to touch only those items that you
really intend to buy
don't use baskets or carts while buying
groceries
some stores will even alter the size of
their shopping carts
for example it was found that making the
size of a shopping cart bigger
can result in more money spent from
customers
the best way to save money is to either
use a basket
or even better your own shopping bag
with a specific list of groceries you
need to buy
avoid shopping at peak times
when shoppers are in a crowded store
they feel out of control
and it can lead to them spending more
money there also
a lot of people end up overspending when
they go shopping with their friends
because they want to keep up with them
that
or our friends and family convince us
that outfit looks great on you or
those shoes are so cool you get hyped up
on the compliments and positive feedback
that your logic takes a back seat and
you end up buying more
try to buy what you need during the time
when malls are
almost empty and preferably go shopping
alone
don't take free treats
free samples of food in different stores
are very popular
for a simple reason they can trigger our
feelings of reciprocity
if we try something tasty we might feel
that we want to give something back to
the place we got it from
free food also triggers our appetite and
makes us buy more
check new packaging companies constantly
redesign their product packaging
but this can hide a small trick the
product's volume
always check the volume on the updated
packaging to see if it shrank
and make sure you're not being forced to
overpay
check out your wardrobe before going
shopping
sometimes when shopping for clothes we
might end up buying items that are
similar to the ones we already own
before you hit the store go through your
closet to check and see
what clothes you already have this way
you'll keep
track of all your items and avoid buying
similar ones